
Skills covered: 
Day 1: 
Github, get accounts, gitignore, commit, push, pull (day 1)
We will all become collaborators on the same "research basics" github repo
Getting Python
Python2 vs Python3
Sample repo as exercises. 

Day 2: 
Functions
Configure, input, compute, output, driver
Import statements, path, pythonpath
Lists, arrays, dictionaries, tuples
	https://thomas-cokelaer.info/tutorials/python/data_structures.html
Named tuples
Separation of data and code
Project 0 as exercises. 

Day 3: 
Datetime
Np.loadtxt
Matrix math, np.shape, np.size
subplots, plot_date, histograms, twinx
Subprocess
Project 1 as exercises.

Day 4: GMT plotting
Day 5: Where to find papers and how to read them

Linear least squares


Project 0a: 
Saeed: Write a function to read GPS input files and turn them into a named tuple. We will all share this function. 
Lucy: Write a function to read GPS velocity files and turn them into a named tuple. We will all share this function. 
Someone: Write a function to read earthquake catalogs into a named tuple.
Project 0b: 
Lucy: Write the 'write' function for the GPS input files. We will all share this function. 
Saeed: Write the 'write' function for the GPS velocity files. We will all share this function. 
Someone: Write the 'write' function for earthquake catalogs. 


Project 1a: 
Each plot a GPS time series in 3 subplots.
Project 1b: 
Each plot a GPS time series in 3 subplots without outliers. 
Project 1c: 
Each plot an east-component GPS time series with EQrate per day in twinx. 
Project 1d: 
Each plot a histogram of earthquake magnitudes and depths from the catalog. 

Project 2 (can be concurrent): 
Write a function to remove the earthquake offsets from a time series. 
Use it in a new version of your plots in Project 1a. 

Project 3: 
Make a map of GPS velocities in Northern California. Use color scale for topography. Include km scale bar, velocity scale, topography scale. 

Project 4: 
Read Menke Ch. 1-3
Use linear least squares to solve for the best-fitting slopes, seasonal terms, etc. 
Remove the earthquakes. 
Plot the results on top of the GPS time series. 
Remove the functional fit and plot the residuals. 

Project 5: 
Do Project 4 with weighted least squares. 



Tips: 
Always write down where, when, and how you got your data! 

